#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrartcl
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{colortbl} 
\usepackage{tabularx}
\usepackage[greek, italian, german, french, english]{babel}
\languageattribute{greek}{polutoniko} 
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[oxford=true]{jurabib}
\jurabibsetup{
     authorformat=and,
     titleformat=italic,
     citefull=first
}
\renewcommand{\bibapifont}[1]{``#1''}

% To use Jurabib idem or ibidem uncomment next line
%\jbuseidemhrule

% To convert all endnotes to endnotes uncomment the next TWO lines
%\usepackage{endnotes}
%\let\footnote=\endnote

% To eliminate the date on first page uncomment the next line
%\date{}

% To eliminate the final blbliography replace \thebibliography
% with \nobibliography (and the correct arguments) at the end of 
% the file. You will have to do it on the LaTeX source, though

% The following allows to change the paragraph spacing
% in the printout without changing the screen spacing
% Note: the value set here will override (not be added to) 
% LyX's settings in  Layout>Document>Layout
%
%\usepackage{setspace}
%\onehalfspace
 
% The next bit shows the comment environment inside a grey box
% Comment it out for final print 
% show my Comments?
\RequirePackage{colortbl,tabularx,ifthen}
\@ifundefined{comment}{}
{
\renewenvironment{comment}{
  \par\medskip\noindent
  \tabularx{\textwidth}{|>{\columncolor[gray]{0.9}}X|}
  \hline
  \emph{Comment:}
  }{
  \endtabularx\hrule\par\medskip
  }
}
%
% End of comment printing bit
% 

%
% This bit changes the heading numbering:
%
% It removes the chapter number and it removes all the dots after
% the subsection numbers. It produces numbers "Wittgenstein style":
% for instance the first section of chapter 2 becomes 1 and not 2.1 as 
% standard LaTeX wouldl have it. In general, we have numbering of the
% form 1.2345 instead of 1.1.2.3.4.5 
%
\renewcommand\thesection{\arabic{section}}
\renewcommand\thesubsection{\thesection.\arabic{subsection}}
\renewcommand\thesubsubsection{\thesubsection\arabic{subsubsection}}
\renewcommand\theparagraph{\thesubsubsection\arabic{paragraph}}
\renewcommand\thesubparagraph{\theparagraph\arabic{subparagraph}}
\end_preamble
\options chapterprefix
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 5
\tocdepth 5
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle headings
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Main theses defended by WR Ashby in 
\emph on
Design for a Brain
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Ashby's theses
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ashby defends a very small number of theses in 
\emph on
Design for a Brain
\emph default
.
 They can be summarized as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A complex behavior is generated when a complex system runs to equilibrium
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A system runs to equilibrium through ultrastability: that is, by randomly
 stepping through sets of parameters affecting the way its subparts are
 connected
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A system with many parts (subsystems) fully connected to each other will
 need an exceedingly long time to reach equilibrium
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A real system will therefore need weak connections between its parts
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Typically, the subsystems will not be mutually connected on the organism's
 side: communication among subsystem is mediated by (its interactions with)
 the environment.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All the points above are illustrated through the Homeostat, 
\emph on
with the exception of the first one
\emph default
.
 That is, the first thesis is the principle around which the Homeostat is
 built: the axiom behind its construction, whereas the other principles
 are conclusions directly derived from the Homeostat's behavior.
 In other words, the first thesis is the philosophical (and philosophically
 very unorthodox) foundation for everything else.
 Ashby wants to prove point 1, which constitutes a very general and broad
 thesis about 
\emph on
life
\emph default
, by effectively building a simplified system (the Homeostat) that illustrates
 its plausibility.
 It is easy to see why the first thesis is so unorthodox, and why it encountered
 such resistance in the cybernetic community when the Homeostat was first
 presented at the Macy foundation's meetings:
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Need reference for this.
 See, for instance, Julian Bigelow: 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

It may be a beautiful replica of something, but heaven only knows what,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 quoted by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
after " p. 8"
key "Eldridge2002"

\end_inset

 from the Proceedings of the 1952 Macy Conferences.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Ashby claims that life is a fundamentally a process (or series of processes)
 aiming at minimizing the impact of external disturbances on the organism.
 The nickname devised by Grey Walter seems quite apt: Ashby's Homeostat
 is a 
\emph on
machina sopora
\emph default
, he claimed, because its ideal function is to go back to sleep as quickly
 as possible.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
See 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
after " p. 111"
key "Walter1961"

\end_inset

.
 Walter concluded his brief review of Ashby's homeostat by saying that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

judging 
\emph on
Machina sopora
\emph default
 entirely by its behavior, the naturalist would classify it as a plant.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 (112) 
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Walter's characterization is rather superficial, though, because it does
 not take into account Ashby's insistence on the complexity of behavior
 that can be produced by the systems he discusses.
 Walter's remark, however, does indicate where the main source of resistance
 to Ashby's thesis about life lies: in its effort to derive action from
 non-action.
 In other words, in Ashby's homeostatic organism, philosophical and theoretical
 preeminence is accorded to non-action---or to sleep, in Walter's mocking
 words.
 This does not mean that the Homeostat will always be sleeping.
 Rather, it means something philosophically far more disturbing: the Homeostat
 will act as much as it is needed in order to go back to sleep.
 It will go to extraordinary lengths, it will take whatever action it can---just
 in order to go back to rest (i.e to equilibrium).
 Moreover, its always possible failure to do so will necessarily result
 in the Homeostat's death.
 In other words: the Ashbian organism will always be trying to accommodate
 itself to environment by whatever means necessary: it is essentially a
 passive machine for which action is a by-product of its search for non-action.
 
\emph on
That
\emph default
 is the disturbing thesis.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "/Users/stefano/Documents/Projects/Homeostat/Biblios/Homeostat-Project-Unicode"
options "jox"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
