#LyX 1.5.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrartcl
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{colortbl} 
\usepackage{tabularx}
\usepackage[greek, italian, german, french, english]{babel}
\languageattribute{greek}{polutoniko} 
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[oxford=true]{jurabib}
\jurabibsetup{
     authorformat=and,
     titleformat=italic,
     citefull=first
}
\renewcommand{\bibapifont}[1]{``#1''}

% To use Jurabib idem or ibidem uncomment next line
%\jbuseidemhrule

% To convert all endnotes to endnotes uncomment the next TWO lines
%\usepackage{endnotes}
%\let\footnote=\endnote

% To eliminate the date on first page uncomment the next line
%\date{}

% To eliminate the final blbliography replace \thebibliography
% with \nobibliography (and the correct arguments) at the end of 
% the file. You will have to do it on the LaTeX source, though

% The following allows to change the paragraph spacing
% in the printout without changing the screen spacing
% Note: the value set here will override (not be added to) 
% LyX's settings in  Layout>Document>Layout
%
%\usepackage{setspace}
%\onehalfspace
 
% The next bit shows the comment environment inside a grey box
% Comment it out for final print 
% show my Comments?
\RequirePackage{colortbl, tabularx}
\renewenvironment{comment}
{% replaces \begin{comment}
\noindent
\tabularx{\textwidth}{|>{\columncolor[gray]{0.9}}X|}
\hline
\emph{\textbf{Comment:}}
}
{% replaces \end{comment}
\endtabularx\hrule
}
%
% End of comment printing bit
% 

%
% This bit changes the heading numbering:
%
% It removes the chapter number and it removes all the dots after
% the subsection numbers. It produces numbers "Wittgenstein style":
% for instance the first section of chapter 2 becomes 1 and not 2.1 as 
% standard LaTeX wouldl have it. In general, we have numbering of the
% form 1.2345 instead of 1.1.2.3.4.5 
%
\renewcommand\thesection{\arabic{section}}
\renewcommand\thesubsection{\thesection.\arabic{subsection}}
\renewcommand\thesubsubsection{\thesubsection\arabic{subsubsection}}
\renewcommand\theparagraph{\thesubsubsection\arabic{paragraph}}
\renewcommand\thesubparagraph{\theparagraph\arabic{subparagraph}}
\end_preamble
\options chapterprefix
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 5
\tocdepth 5
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle headings
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Reflection on the homeostat and a possible project thereof
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Stefano Franchi
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Comment
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard
A sketch for a paper (first of a series?, chapter of book?) on the homeostat,
 cyborgs, cyber-subjectivity, etcetera.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Preliminaries
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The issue is the following.
 In an interesting piece, Di Paolo (2003) notices that the trend toward
 embedded and situated cognition (and, hence, robotics and nouvelle AI)
 in cognitive science has not gone far enough, because it still lack a notion
 of agency motivated by desires (needs).
 Desire which, in turns, are generated by---rather, are equivalent to---some
 physical need of the organism itself.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Comment
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard
Update this point with reference to trecent work by DiPaolo and Seth, Enaction,
 etcetera
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The reintroduction of the notion of agency goes hand in hand with (a rather
 classical) notion of subjectivity that he wants to reintroduce as well.
 He notices how the inspiration for this work comes (once again, vide Dreyfus)
 from Continental philosophy, and particularly from the work of Hans Jonas
 (
\emph on
The Phenomenon of Life
\emph default
), Merleau-Ponty, etc.
 It is in this context that he introduces his own experiments in evolutionary
 robotics, which are based and strongly inspired by Ashby's homeostat.
 In other words: the architecture of the homeostat (or at least, the principles
 behind that architecture) are used by Di Paolo in order to introduce into
 cognitive science a classical notion of subjectivity based on physiological
 needs.
 The Ashbian concept of ultrastability (which the homeostat embodies) becomes
 the key to a physically (in a very, very strong sense of physics) grounded
 notion of agency.
 Di Paolo, who is not a philosopher nor wants to be one, assumes or rather
 presupposes that this notion of agency is rather intuitive (he mostly refer
 to Jonas for the details, see also his review of Jonas's book) and largely
 uncontroversial.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am not convinced of the latter point.
 Or rather, I am not conviced that a homeostatic ultrastable subjectivity
 in the Ashbian vein is that close to a classical, more or less Cartesian
 view of subjectivity.
 In fact, I am not even convinced that Ashby's own interpretation of the
 homeostat is that adequate, in the sense that he stresses the homeostat's
 closure to the world, the system being autonomous from the world insofar
 as it is always free (within preestablished boundaries) to rearrange itself
 and achieve stability.
 But it seems to me that the homeostat (the 
\emph on
same
\emph default
 homeostat) is passible of a different reading in which the essential opening
 to the world in stressed instead, the the system being able to incorporate
 as much of it as possible in order to survive.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These may seem secondary interpretive matters.
 They are not.
 The reason becomes clear if we link cybernetics to its other cyber---cyber-theo
ry.
 In other words: how much is the post-structuralist (and post-everything)
 theory of the subject that we find in authors like Haraway, Braidotti,
 Stengers, a more accurate rendition of the original cyborg, i.e.
 the homeostat? And, indeed, how much is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

my
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 theory of subjectivity as passivity compatible with the homeostat?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This, in a nutshell, is the question: use the homeostat to think the cyborg,
 use the cyborg to think the homeostat.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The problem, though, is: how do I do that?
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
