#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass notecard
\begin_preamble
% Use the minionPro fonts. See MinionPro.pdf for the options
%\usepackage[fullfamily,opticals,normalsize,footnotefigures]{MinionPro}
 
%The following package is needed to have interrupted lists
\usepackage{mdwlist}

% self-explanatory: reduces the font of the quote environment
\usepackage{relsize}
\newcommand*{\OriginalQuote}{}
\let\OriginalQuote\quote
\renewcommand*{\quote}{\OriginalQuote\smaller}

% adds microtypography support 
\usepackage{microtype}

\usepackage{enumitem}
%this is for eliminating rows b/t items with setlist nolistsep
\setlist{nolistsep}  


% For a smaller caption in float figures
\addtokomafont{caption}{\smaller}

% Koma command to reduce the caption indent in figures
\setcapindent{1em}

\usepackage{colortbl} 
\usepackage{tabularx}



% load biblatex (remember to comment jurabib out)
%
% author-year style in citation, standard bibliographic style
%\usepackage[citestyle=authoryear-ibid, bibstyle=authoryear, sorting=nyt]{biblatex}


% To convert all endnotes to endnotes uncomment the next TWO lines
%\usepackage{endnotes}
%\let\footnote=\endnote

% To eliminate the date on first page uncomment the next line
%\date{}

% To eliminate the final bibliography replace \thebibliography
% with \nobibliography (and the correct arguments) at the end of 
% the file. You will have to do it on the LaTeX source, though


% load footmisc with the [para] option to have multiple footnotes 
% in a single paragraph at the bottom of the page
% Must be loaded AFTER the package SETSPACE
% Notice also that this package will produce fatal errors
 % IF there are comments in a footnote
% AND %  the next bit of code (which prints comments in a box) is active

\usepackage{footmisc}


%
% This bit changes the heading numbering:
%
% It removes the chapter number and it removes all the dots after
% the subsection numbers. It produces numbers "Wittgenstein style":
% for instance the first section of chapter 2 becomes 1 and not 2.1 as 
% standard LaTeX wouldl have it. In general, we have numbering of the
% form 1.2345 instead of 1.1.2.3.4.5 
%
\renewcommand{\thesection}{\arabic{section}}
\renewcommand{\thesubsection}{\thesection.\arabic{subsection}}
\renewcommand{\thesubsubsection}{\thesubsection\arabic{subsubsection}}
\renewcommand{\theparagraph}{\thesubsubsection\arabic{paragraph}}
\renewcommand{\thesubparagraph}{\theparagraph\arabic{subparagraph}}

%The following command is needed when working in "outline mode", i.e. when 
% the documents has a long sequence of headings only (with no text in between)
% that would run off the bottom of the page in the pdf file (due to
% LaTeX rule of not allowing a page break directly after a heading.)
% Comment it out for final printings.

%\renewcommand\@afterheading{} 
% The following allows to change the paragraph spacing
% in the printout without changing the screen spacing
% Note: the value set here will override (not be added to) 
% LyX's settings in  Layout>Document>Layout
%
\usepackage{setspace}
%\onehalfspace
\singlespace

\AtBeginDocument{\selectlanguage{english}}

\makeatother
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
How to implement drum-like sounds for uniselectors' activation in Homeo
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The desired output for an aural feedback is a percussive sound triggered
 by the activation of the units' uniselectors.
 There are several ways, toolkits, and packages allowing the production
 (synthesis or playing) of sound in or from python.
 This note describes in outline how to realize percussive sound production
 with the combined use of SuperCollider and the SC package to control it
 from python (https://pypi.python.org/pypi/SC/0.3.1).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The three basic components needed are:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
supercollider server for sound synthesis and play
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
parameter-controlled synthdefs for supercollider
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
SC module for SC control
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Implementation issues
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Sound selection
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
The audio feedback must allow the identification, to a certain extent, of
 the unit the uniselector belongs to.
 Given the punctual nature of the uniselector activation, the most natural
 audio feedback is represented by a percussive sound.
 The issue is then how to distinguish or better parameterize different percussiv
e sounds for the different units.
 One possibility is to use drum-like synthdefs at different frequencies.
 Another possibility is to use different kind of percussions (e.g.
 kick, snare, etc.).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In either case, the instantiation of a uniselector must produce a 
\emph on
unique
\emph default
 parameter controlling the sound that it will produce.
 The parameter must be unique among the currently existing uniselectors.
 One way of doing this is to keep count of the uniselector instances produced
 (
\emph on
and 
\emph default
destroyed) by the system.
 Then the current id could be linked to a global list held by a sound class,
 or directly used to parametrize a frequency.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
See this Stack Overflow answer on this issue: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/
8628123/counting-instances-of-a-class
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Implementation
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Runtime production
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
The uniselector class holds on to just one parameter controlling the kind
 of sounds it produces.
 A simple function call produces the percussive sound.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Initialization.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Initialization requires starting the sc server and loading the syntdef(s)
 from file.
 This is probably best done in the simulation class(es).
 The uniselectors know nothing about physical sound production beyond the
 parameter they are holding on to.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Or, alternatively, the uniselector will hold on to some kind of parametrize
 playDrum object (an instance of a PlayDrum helper class that know how to
 play a sound on the synth server).
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Sound production function
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
A simple helper class will provide both initialization functions (called
 from the simulation instance) and sound production methods that will activate
 the synth server.
 Perhaps the simplest solution is to have a PlayDrum class that knows how
 to play a drum sound on the synth server.
 Instances of the class are help by uniselector instances.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_deeper
\end_deeper
\end_body
\end_document
